snsearch "automatically" searches a list of test images against a list of
reference images for stars that have appeared in a test image that are not in
the reference image. The search region may be delimited by an area of interest.

Usage:
    snsearch arcsec_sep config_file test1.fts ...
or
    snsearch -f file_of_files arcsec_sep config_file

arcsec_sep is the maximum separation allowed between object locations, in 
arc seconds. It is also the amount by which the AOI is reduced for the test
image.

config_file is the file containing the list of reference images. the file
consists of one or more lines in the following format:

    OBJECT ERa NDec WRa SDec reference.fts
    ...


    where:

	OBJECT:	name of object, as it appears in the OBJECT FITS header field.
	ERa:	East RA limit in the form HH:MM:SS (J2000)
	NDEc:	North Dec limit in the form DDD:MM:SS (J2000)
	WRa:	West RA limit in the form HH:MM:SS (J2000)
	SDEc:	South Dec limit in the form DDD:MM:SS (J2000)

    All lines which do not begin with an alphanumeric character are ignored.

The remaining arguments to snsearch are the test image file names. They
are matched up with the reference images by matching OBJECT fields and so may
be given in any order. A reference object must exist for each test object.
The list of test files may also be in a file by using the -f option.


The output generated by snsearch is in two parts. The first part has one line
per test image in the following format:

    OBJECT rfile tfile date time nref ntest nsuper

    where:
	OBJECT:	name of object, as it appears in the OBJECT FITS header field.
	rfile:	name of reference file
	tfile:	name of test file
	date:	date of test file (same as DATE-OBS FITS field)
	time:	time of test file (same as TIME-OBS FITS field)
	nref:	number of stars found inside AOI in the reference image
	ntest:	number of stars found inside AOI in the test image
	nsuper:	number of stars in test with no corresponding star in reference.

The first part is followed by a form-feed character (control-l).

The remainder of the file is a report of the location of each potential
supernovae. There will be one line for each supernovae candidate in the
following format:

    OBJECT tfile RA Dec

    where:

	OBJECT:	name of object, as it appears in the OBJECT FITS header field.
	tfile:	name of test file
	RA:	RA of candidate (J2000)
	Dec:	Dec of candidate (J2000)

A blank line is inserted after each set of objects.

! For RCS Only -- Do Not Edit
! @(#) $RCSfile: README,v $ $Date: 2003/04/15 20:48:39 $ $Revision: 1.1.1.1 $ $Name:  $
